.TH TRUENAS\-DISCOVERY\-STATUS 1 "2026-04-23" "truenas-pydiscovery" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
truenas\-discovery\-status \- dump truenas-discoveryd runtime state as JSON
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B truenas\-discovery\-status
.RB [ \-\-rundir
.IR DIR ]
.RB [ \-\-timeout
.IR SECONDS ]
.RB [ \-\-pretty ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B truenas\-discovery\-status
reads the
.B truenas\-discoveryd
pidfile, sends
.B SIGUSR1
to the daemon to refresh its per\-protocol
.I status.json
files, waits briefly for those files to be rewritten, and then prints
a single merged JSON object on stdout.
.PP
The output has the shape:
.nf
\fR{
  "pid": <daemon pid>,
  "children": {
    "mdns": { \&...\& },
    "netbiosns": { \&...\& },
    "wsd": { \&...\& }
  }
}\fP
.fi
Each child key is present only when that protocol is enabled and has
written a
.I status.json
since daemon startup.
.PP
Must be run as root or as the
.B truenas\-discovery
user so the
.B SIGUSR1
delivery is permitted.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-rundir " DIR"
Daemon runtime directory containing the pidfile and per\-protocol
.I status.json
files.
Default:
.IR /run/truenas\-discovery .
.TP
.BI \-\-timeout " SECONDS"
Maximum seconds to wait for the daemon to rewrite its status files
after
.B SIGUSR1
delivery.
Default: 5.0.
Use 0 to skip waiting and print whatever is already on disk.
.TP
.B \-\-pretty
Pretty\-print the JSON output with indentation.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Status was printed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Daemon is not running (pidfile missing or stale), signal delivery
failed, or a status file could not be read.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
truenas\-discovery\-status | jq \&.children.mdns.hostname
truenas\-discovery\-status \-\-pretty
truenas\-discovery\-status \-\-timeout 0
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR truenas\-discoveryd (8)
