.TH TRUENAS\-PYDISCOVERYD.CONF 5 "2026-04-17" "truenas-pydiscovery" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
truenas\-pydiscoveryd.conf \- configuration for truenas\-pydiscoveryd(8)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I /etc/truenas\-pydiscovery/truenas\-pydiscoveryd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
INI\-format configuration file.
A shared
.B [discovery]
section supplies default values for any of the three per\-protocol
sections
.RB ( [mdns] ,
.BR [netbiosns] ,
.BR [wsd] ).
Each per\-protocol section has an
.B enabled
key; if set to
.BR false ,
.BR no ,
or
.BR 0 ,
that protocol is not started.
Missing sections are treated as disabled.  At least one of the three
protocols must be enabled or the daemon refuses to start.
.SH SECTION [discovery]
.TP
.B interfaces
Comma\- or space\-separated list of interface names all enabled
protocols should bind to by default.
.TP
.B hostname
Default hostname advertised by every protocol.
If unset, each protocol falls back to the system hostname.
.TP
.B workgroup
Default workgroup name used by the NetBIOS NS and WSD protocols.
.TP
.B rundir
Base runtime directory (default
.IR /run/truenas\-pydiscovery ).
Each protocol's own rundir sits under this as
.IR mdns ,
.IR netbiosns ,
.IR wsd .
.SH SECTION [mdns]
.TP
.B enabled
.BR true " (default) or " false .
.TP
.B interfaces
Override of the shared list for mDNS only.
.TP
.B host-name
Override hostname for mDNS only.
.TP
.B domain-name
mDNS domain, typically
.BR local .
.TP
.BR use-ipv4 ", " use-ipv6
.BR yes " / " no .
.TP
.B cache-entries-max
Maximum cache records per interface (default
.BR 4096 ).
.TP
.B enable-reflector
Cross\-interface reflector mode (default
.BR no ).
.TP
.B service-dir
Directory containing service definition files (default
.IR /etc/truenas\-pydiscovery/services.d ).
.SH SECTION [netbiosns]
.TP
.B enabled
.BR true " (default) or " false .
.TP
.B interfaces
Override of the shared list.
The NetBIOS section accepts three token forms in this list,
resolved at daemon startup against the live network state:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
Interface name (\fBeth0\fR) \(em every local IPv4 address on that
interface becomes a separate broadcast domain the daemon participates in.
.IP \(bu 3
Bare IPv4 (\fB10.0.0.5\fR) \(em just the one local address.
.IP \(bu 3
CIDR (\fB192.168.1.0/24\fR) \(em every local address inside this
network; the user\-supplied prefix overrides the kernel netmask
for the matched addresses, following Samba\(cq\(cq\&s
\fBinterpret_interface\fR behaviour.
.RE
.IP
Each resolved entry is one broadcast domain
(analogous to Samba\(cq\(cq\&s \fBsubnet_record\fR).
A single interface with IPv4 addresses in two subnets yields two
entries; the daemon registers the configured names on every entry.
Tokens that do not resolve to any local address cause startup to fail.
.TP
.B netbios-name
Primary 15\-char NetBIOS name.
Defaults to the system hostname, uppercased and truncated.
.TP
.B netbios-aliases
Comma\-separated additional NetBIOS names to register.
.TP
.B workgroup
Workgroup / domain name (overrides shared value).
.TP
.B server-string
Free\-form server description for browse announcements (truncated to
43 bytes).
.SH SECTION [wsd]
.TP
.B enabled
.BR true " (default) or " false .
.TP
.B interfaces
Override of the shared list.
.TP
.B hostname
Override hostname for WSD only.
.TP
.B workgroup
Overrides shared workgroup.
.TP
.B domain
AD domain name, if any.
.TP
.BR use-ipv4 ", " use-ipv6
.BR yes " / " no .
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
.nf
[discovery]
interfaces = eth0 eth1
hostname = TRUENAS
workgroup = WORKGROUP

[mdns]
enabled = true
use-ipv4 = yes
use-ipv6 = yes
domain-name = local

[netbiosns]
enabled = true
server-string = TrueNAS Server

[wsd]
enabled = true
use-ipv4 = yes
use-ipv6 = yes
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR truenas\-pydiscoveryd (8),
.BR truenas\-mdnsd\-service.conf (5)
