.TH TRUENAS\-PYDISCOVERYD 8 "2026-04-17" "truenas-pydiscovery" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
truenas\-pydiscoveryd \- TrueNAS unified network discovery daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B truenas\-pydiscoveryd
.RB [ \-c
.IR CONFIG ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B truenas\-pydiscoveryd
is a single process that hosts three network discovery protocols
in one Python event loop:
.TP
\(bu
mDNS / DNS\-SD (RFC\ 6762, RFC\ 6763)
.TP
\(bu
NetBIOS Name Service and Browser (RFC\ 1001, RFC\ 1002, MS\-BRWS)
.TP
\(bu
WS\-Discovery 1.1 (OASIS) with Microsoft PBSD extensions
.PP
Each protocol is independently supervised: a failure in one does not
bring down the others.  Each can be individually disabled via its
section's
.B enabled = false
flag in the configuration file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c " CONFIG" "\fR,\fP \-\-config " CONFIG
Path to configuration file.
Default: \fI/etc/truenas\-pydiscovery/truenas\-pydiscoveryd.conf\fP.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Increase log verbosity.
Use once for INFO, twice for DEBUG.
Without this flag, logging goes to syslog.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGHUP
Reload configuration across every enabled protocol.
Each protocol re\-resolves interfaces, reloads local state, and
re\-announces.
.TP
.B SIGUSR1
Write runtime status for every enabled protocol to its per\-protocol
status.json under \fI/run/truenas\-pydiscovery\fP.
.TP
.BR SIGTERM ", " SIGINT
Graceful shutdown: each protocol sends its goodbye / release / bye
frames and closes sockets.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/truenas\-pydiscovery/truenas\-pydiscoveryd.conf
Unified daemon configuration (INI format).
.TP
.I /etc/truenas\-pydiscovery/services.d/*.conf
mDNS service definition files (one per service).
.TP
.I /run/truenas\-pydiscovery/mdns/status.json
mDNS runtime status (SIGUSR1).
.TP
.I /run/truenas\-pydiscovery/netbiosns/status.json
NetBIOS NS runtime status.
.TP
.I /run/truenas\-pydiscovery/wsd/status.json
WS\-Discovery runtime status.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR truenas\-pydiscoveryd.conf (5),
.BR truenas\-mdnsd\-service.conf (5),
.BR mdns\-browse (1),
.BR mdns\-lookup (1),
.BR mdns\-resolve (1),
.BR nbt\-lookup (1),
.BR nbt\-status (1),
.BR wsd\-discover (1),
.BR wsd\-info (1)
