.TH TRUENAS\-DISCOVERYD\-SERVICE.CONF 5 "2026-04-20" "truenas-pydiscovery" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
truenas\-pydiscoveryd\-service.conf \- mDNS service definition file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I /etc/truenas\-pydiscovery/services.d/*.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
Each \fB.conf\fP file in the services directory defines one mDNS/DNS\-SD
service to be advertised by
.BR truenas\-pydiscoveryd (8).
The directory path is set by the
.B service\-dir
key in the
.B [mdns]
section of
.BR truenas\-pydiscoveryd.conf (5).
Middleware writes these files; the daemon reads them on startup and
on SIGHUP reload.
.PP
Only \fBtype\fP and \fBport\fP are required.
.SH SECTIONS
.SS [service]
.TP
.B type
DNS\-SD service type.
Must start with underscore.
Example: \fB_smb._tcp\fP, \fB_http._tcp\fP, \fB_adisk._tcp\fP.
Required.
.TP
.B port
TCP or UDP port number (0\(en65535).
Required.
.TP
.B name
Service instance name.
Default: \fB%h\fP (replaced with the configured hostname).
.TP
.B domain
mDNS domain for this service.
Default: \fBlocal\fP.
.TP
.B host
Target hostname for the SRV record.
Default: daemon's FQDN.
.TP
.B interfaces
Comma\-separated list of interfaces to advertise this service on.
Default: all configured interfaces.
.TP
.B priority
SRV record priority (0\(en65535).
Default: \fB0\fP.
.TP
.B weight
SRV record weight (0\(en65535).
Default: \fB0\fP.
.SS [txt]
Optional key=value pairs included in the TXT record (RFC\ 6763\ s6).
Each key becomes one TXT entry.
.SH EXAMPLES
SMB file sharing:
.nf
[service]
type = _smb._tcp
port = 445
.fi
.PP
Time Machine:
.nf
[service]
type = _adisk._tcp
port = 9

[txt]
sys = waMa=0,adVF=0x100
dk0 = adVN=TMBackup,adVF=0x82,adVU=aabb\-ccdd\-eeff
.fi
.PP
Web UI on specific interface:
.nf
[service]
type = _http._tcp
port = 443
interfaces = eth0
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR truenas\-pydiscoveryd (8),
.BR truenas\-pydiscoveryd.conf (5)
